Before I show you an example of how to create an object by the class syntax, I just want us to talk
about constructor functions and a bit more detail because once you understand our constructor function
works in terms of prototypes, you'll realize that the class syntax is just a syntactical sugar around
a constructor function and show you what I mean.
This just creates a constructor function or person.
Which takes in the first name, last name.
That's it.
And we see this first name to be first name.
This last name, the last name.
And let's have a nickname method.
Where we just console.log.
Using template literals.
This first name.
This.
Boston.
Very intuitive.
You've been through this before, so you know exactly how this works.
And the second step to construct the function is it's right, instantiating the object.
So let's say user equals new, let's say use a one equals new person.
And this is John.
But.
And as you know, we can get the name.
And it should console.log this out to the screen.
There you go, John Doe, you're really familiar with this.
This shouldn't come as a surprise.
This is where it starts getting interesting.
If we've got a user too, that comes along.
And this is Wally.
Warthog.
This looks like it looks good, but behind the scenes, do you know what's actually happening?
We net new keyword is used, JavaScript is literally copying a constructor function or the properties
and methods from the constructor function, and it's placing it onto the new object.
We've created the new variable.
The problem with this is that it's a waste of memory space makes our application slower.
You don't want to be duplicating this get named method, for example.
Once we write at once, why not just have it stored in one place rather than having duplicates and duplicates
hundreds and thousands stored absolutely everywhere.
And every time you use a new keyword, that's the one problem.
But before tell you how to fix this, I just want to show you that every time a function is created
in JavaScript, the engine automatically plays as a prototype property on that function and show you
what I mean.
Let's just copy this so we don't have to write it out again.
Control.
See, I'm just going to open up our console here and paste it in.
So these are function in Google console.
What I'm going to do now is I'm going to go person and I want to show you that it has a prototype property
and that prototype property is the constructor function, which is this whole and structure function
here.
This with a constructor function is an every time you create a new instance of it, it's going to copy
those values onto that new instance.
I can prove that to you.
It's a valid user.
One equals new person just like we did before.
And what do we call him?
John Doe?
When we console.log accuser, we have a look here and we open it up.
Look at this.
This name function, this method has been copied to this object.
And again, it's got the photo object with the constructor function pointing to this.
So you can really see the all duplicates we rewriting, aren't we restoring in memory things that we
don't necessarily have to?
And this brings me to the point of this whole picture.
How do we solve this problem?
Well, what you can do is you can add a prototype onto that function.
And that gets stored once instead of getting duplicated across multiple instances.
Amy, show you what I mean.
So let's go back to our console here.
Now, let's say we've defined user one is John Doe, let's get rid of user two for now.
But now we want to construct a function at another property called age, but we want to do this on the
prototype, so we've got a person prototype because we know each function created in JavaScript automatically
as its prototype property and then we can have an agent.
Let's just say it's thirty five.
You already know we've defined use before we've done this.
But if we now console.log.
Use a one age.
You can see console.log 35.
It's automatically got access to the prototype, so let's cool with this is that now that age property
on the prototype is only stored once in memory.
Have a look at us if we console.log out, use a one.
You don't immediately see the age, you know, which is awesome, but it is going to be attached to
its prototype.
And I'll show you Vietnam.
Let's go back to our console equity.
And we can see here if we go person dot a dot prototype dot age equals thirty five.
And now we console.log, argues again, you can see we don't see age on its immediate properties.
But look at this within its prototype object is the age.
How awesome is this?
So this is now constructor functions, prototypes.
And the like, and now I think you ready to get into the class object syntax.
Let's have a look.